# 02 - Compute in the Cloud

**EC2** (Elastic Compute Cloud) is an on-demand compute capacity that can be quickly launched, scaled, and terminated.

**Multi-tenancy** allows multiple virtual machines to share resources on the same physical host, with isolation between them.

All interactions with services are powered by **APIs**.

- An API is an application programming interface - SDK (eg. python), CLI or console (dashboard).

---

### Amazon Machine Images - AMI

AMIs are pre-built virtual machine images that have the basic components for what is needed to start an instance. AMI is the model, instances are machines that are on/off.

**Scalability** is about a system’s potential to grow over time, whereas **elasticity** is about the dynamic, on-demand adjustment of resources.

**EC2 Auto Scaling** automatically adjusts the number of EC2 instances based on changes in application demand, providing better availability

**Elastic Load Balancing (ELB)** automatically distributes incoming application traffic across multiple resources, such as EC2 instances.

**ELB and Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling are different things.**

They work together to:

- Scale the application automatically.

- Keep **high availability**

- Keep **consistent perf** during the scale in/scale out.

Amazon EventBridge, Amazon SNS, and Amazon SQS are AWS services that help different parts of an application communicate effectively in the cloud. These services support building event-driven and message-based systems. 
